Update "latest" tagged images on new tag (#248)
stackrox/rox-ci-image: README.md

Reviewer: This is all very nice and describes various bits and pieces. But what a random person who wants to bump a random dependency would look for is a step-by-step guide on how to get it out of the door. 

We also need to agree on some sort of synchronization against multiple changes to this repo that are in flight.  because there can only be one latest tag at a time so a single change to openshift/release can be tested at a given moment.

Author: Understood. I'll add a step-by-step walkthrough

And you're right, if someone is testing a `latest` (current master of rox-ci-image) and a PR merges to rox-ci-image and pushes a new latest image and that gets mirrored, then the testing could get a newer "latest" than they expected.

However, I think that is rare because we do not change these images often. Would it be helped or prevented if I add a GHA check that warns on PRs if the "stable" tag is older than the last "latest" tag on master? (So the PR creator could look at master to see what other changes are "in-flight" and not promoted to stable yet)

Author: @porridge I merged this to unblock m.clasmeier. Does the updated readme look better, or what can be improved?

Reviewer: Much better. Though I have [some nitpicks](https://github.com/stackrox/rox-ci-image/pull/248#pullrequestreview-4138328388).

[gha-badge]: https://github.com/stackrox/rox-ci-image/actions/workflows/build.yaml/badge.svg
[gha-link]:  https://github.com/stackrox/rox-ci-image/actions/workflows/build.yaml

## Image Tags and Release Process

Each image flavor (e.g. `stackrox-test`, `scanner-test`) is pushed to
`quay.io/stackrox-io/apollo-ci` with three types of tags:

| Tag | Example | Updated when | Use in |
|-----|---------|-------------|--------|
| **versioned** | `stackrox-test-0.5.7` | Every merge to main (auto-tagged) | Release branch prow configs, pinned references |
| **latest** | `stackrox-test-latest` | Every new version tag on main | Testing rox-ci-image version in openshift/release PRs with `/pj-rehearse` before promoting to stable. |
| **stable** | `stackrox-test-stable` | Manual promotion via workflow | Master/nightly prow configs in openshift/release |

### How it works

1. **Merge to main** -- `tag.yaml` auto-creates a semver tag (e.g. `0.5.8`)
2. **Tag push** -- `build.yaml` builds all images, pushes versioned tags, and
   updates `latest` (only if the tag is the highest version on main)

> 3. **Promote to stable** -- run manually when ready:

Reviewer: For convenience:

```suggestion
3. **Promote to stable** -- [run manually](https://github.com/stackrox/rox-ci-image/actions/workflows/promote-stable.yaml) when ready:
```

   ```bash
   gh workflow run promote-stable.yaml
   # or with a specific version:
   gh workflow run promote-stable.yaml -f version=0.5.8
   ```
   This does a server-side retag (no rebuild) of all image flavors from the
   specified version (default: `latest`) to `stable`.

### Updating prow jobs in openshift/release

> Prow job configs in `openshift/release` reference these images via

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prow [job configs](https://github.com/openshift/release/tree/main/ci-operator/config/stackrox/stackrox) in the `openshift/release` repository reference these images via
```

`build_root.image_stream_tag`. The tags must first be mirrored in
`core-services/image-mirroring/_config.yaml`.

> - **Master/nightly configs**: use `stable` tag -- automatically picks up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Master/nightly configs**: use `stable` tag -- periodically, automatically picks up
```

   gh workflow run promote-stable.yaml -f version=0.5.8
   ```
   This does a server-side retag (no rebuild) of all image flavors from the
   specified version (default: `latest`) to `stable`.

### Updating prow jobs in openshift/release

Prow [job configs](https://github.com/openshift/release/tree/main/ci-operator/config/stackrox/stackrox) in the `openshift/release` repository reference these images via
`build_root.image_stream_tag`. The tags must first be mirrored in
`core-services/image-mirroring/_config.yaml`.

- **Master/nightly configs**: use `stable` tag -- periodically, automatically picks up
  promoted versions without config changes.
- **Release branch configs**: pin to a specific version (e.g. `scanner-test-0.5.7`)
  for reproducibility.
- **`latest` tag**: use only for testing PRs against openshift/release.
  `latest` is a moving target and should not be used for required jobs --
  it is intended only for validation before promoting to `stable`.

### Mirroring new versions to openshift CI

To mirror a new versioned tag for release branch use:

1. Add an entry to `core-services/image-mirroring/_config.yaml` in openshift/release
2. PR requires testplatform team review

> The `latest` and `stable` floating tags are mirrored once and do not need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mirroring of the `latest` and `stable` floating tags is set up once and does not need
```

updates per version.

## Step-by-step: Making a CI Image Change

Example: you need to bump a dependency or add a tool to the CI image.

1. **Make your change** on a branch and open a PR in this repo.
2. **Merge to main** -- once approved, merge the PR. The `tag.yaml` workflow
   auto-creates a semver tag (e.g. `0.5.8`).
3. **Wait for the build** -- the `build.yaml` workflow builds all image flavors
   and pushes both versioned and `latest` tags to quay.io.
4. **Test in openshift/release** -- open a PR in `openshift/release` that
   references the `latest` tag and run `/pj-rehearse` to validate affected

>    prow jobs. No config change is needed if the jobs already use `latest`.

Reviewer: Maybe mention that mirroring can take some time and thus a pause may be necessary between 3 and 4?

5. **Promote to stable** -- once rehearsals pass, [run the promote-stable
   workflow](https://github.com/stackrox/rox-ci-image/actions/workflows/promote-stable.yaml)
   (or `gh workflow run promote-stable.yaml`). This retags `latest` → `stable`.
   Master/nightly prow jobs pick up the new image automatically.
6. **Pin release branches** (if needed) -- for release branch configs, update
   `openshift/release` to reference the specific versioned tag
   (e.g. `stackrox-test-0.5.8`). This requires testplatform review.

> **Note:** There is only one `latest` tag per flavor, so only one
> rox-ci-image change can be tested via rehearsal at a time. Coordinate

> > with others if multiple changes are in flight.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> with others in #some-channel-name if multiple changes are in flight.
```
